(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)

Hello, good night. Hello? Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Okay, sorry, my phone is acting up a little bit lately, but it might settle down now.

So, sorry, yeah, I don't know when you sent me that email. It just slipped into my promotion side of my email, so I saw it there this evening. So, I just said I'd just touch base with you.

So, tell me, what have you done so far? Well, what I have, I'm trying to put solar panels. I have a house from 2014. 16, sorry.

17, actually, 2017. It's a VIR A3, okay? So, it's a pretty good house already. But I was planning to change the gas for an air-to-water system, pump.

Okay. And taking advantage of changing the solar panels and battery, trying to avoid the gas consumption entirely. So, I know there are grants, right, for removing the gas at the moment.

Yeah, there would be, there's a grant of $6,500 for the heat pump. And I suppose if you have to do anything to your heating side of it then, as in your delivery side of your heating then, I think there's an extra $6,000. So, I think it adds up to about $12,500.

Yeah. Okay. Now, obviously, so, what's your heat loss indicator on the house? I don't exactly know, but I have the VIR.

I can send you the report if you want. Okay. And did you get a technical BER assessment done or did you get, or is it just a standard BER? It's the one that we have when the house was built in 2017.

Okay. But there was no changes on, you know, what it was. Okay, okay.

Well, if you're an A3 anyway, I think you're exempt from having to get a technical BER assessment done. Nonetheless, if, what I think the very minimum I will need from you is, I will need a plan of the house. Now, you can sketch it out if you want.

I will need room sizes, size of your heat emitters, so the size of your radiators that are currently there. Because your heat pump is going to run on low temperature. I know.

Okay. So, obviously, most of the times you would have to up the size of your radiators. Now, are you suggesting that you have up the size of them already? I would imagine so.

They are like double, I don't know exactly, but, sorry, because I'm from Spain and I know the technical details in Spanish, but it's hard for me in English. But they are already, I think they work with low energy. They are big enough and they are like double.

How do you say? Okay. Well, look, yeah, no, I get what you're saying. I suppose with the heat pumps sometimes, you know, sometimes you will need to go bigger than you think.

Yeah. But look, the only way that we can narrow this down, and I'm not going to sit down and do heat loss calculations because life is too short for me to be doing that. So, what I do is I just take your information, I send it off to you.

I deal with Unitherm all the time. I find them good, like, you know. So, they will calculate your heat loss.

And they will come back to me or to us with recommendations of radiator sizes, okay? Okay. So, that's, and look, if we don't get this right, okay. So, if you tell me or I don't want to change, what have you done so far? Well, what I have, I'm trying to put like solar panels.

I have a house from 2014, 16, sorry, 17. Actually, it's 2017. It's a VIR A3, okay? So, it's pretty good house already.

But I was planning to change the gas for air to water system, pump. Okay. And taking advantage of changing the solar panels and battery, trying to avoid the gas consumption entirely.

So, I know there are like grants, right, for removing the gas at the moment. Yeah, there would be, there's a grant of $6,500 for the heat pump. And I suppose if you have to do anything to your heating side of it then, as in your delivery side of your heating then, I think there's an extra $6,000.

So, I think it adds up to about $12,500. Yeah. Okay.

Now, obviously, so what's your heat loss indicator on the house? I don't exactly know, but I have the VIR. I can send you the report if you want. Okay.

And did you get a technical BER assessment done or did you get, or is it just a standard BER? It's the one that we have when the house was built in 2017. Okay. But there were no changes on, you know, what it was.

Okay, okay. Well, if you're an A3 anyway, I think you're exempt from having to get a technical BER assessment done. Nonetheless, what I think the very minimum I will need from you is, I will need a plan of the house.

Now, you can sketch it out if you want. I will need room sizes, size of your heat emitters, so the size of your radiators that are currently there. Because your heat pump is going to run on low temperature.

I know. Okay. So, obviously, most of the times you would have to up the size of your radiators.

Now, are you suggesting that you have upped the size of them already? I would imagine so. They are like double, I don't know exactly, but, sorry, because I'm from Spain and I know the technical details in Spanish, but it's hard for me in English. But they are already, I think they work with low energy.

They are big enough and they are like double. How do you say? Okay. Well, look, yeah, no, I get what you're saying.

I suppose with the heat pumps, sometimes you will need to go bigger than you think. But look, the only way that we can narrow this down, and I'm not going to sit down and do heat loss calculations because life is too short for me to be doing that. So, what I do is I just take your information.

I send it off to you. I deal with Unitherm all the time. I find them good, like, you know.

So, they will calculate your heat loss. And they will come back to me or to us with recommendations of radiator sizes, okay? Okay. So, that's... And look, if we don't get this right, okay? So, if you tell me, oh, I don't want to change that radiator because, you know, a triple panel there would look stupid or a 700 high radiator doesn't fit.

Like that. If you get that wrong and you make those decisions, right? You will find that your heat pump doesn't heat your house properly. And you will be coming back to me saying, this isn't working.

And I will be saying, this is your fault, not mine. Okay? No, no. Definitely, I will... Yeah, we want to avoid that situation.

We want to, you know... I like to shake somebody's hand going out the door and job to be good, like, you know? No, no. And look, what I'm providing is the information. I know there are type 22, I think is the radiator type.

And I can tell you, like, they already run in really low temperature. Like, they never get super high. But, again, as you said, right? If we can do a recommendation assessment, that's better.

Yeah. And tell me this, what kind of spoiler do you have at the moment? So, I have... You want the brand, right? Yeah. Yeah, I'm just curious.

It's an Emergas. Big truce, serious. Okay, so it's an Emergas combination boiler.

So it's a big lump of yolk. I'm not sure what you mean by that, sorry. Oh, sorry, sorry.

So it's a big-looking gas boiler. Yeah. It stores the hot water as well.

It doesn't store hot... Well, it might have, like, a deposit, but I'm not sure. I can send you pictures if you want. Yeah, you can send me a picture.

Yeah, what's up there. But I would say, I think it is... Are you in the first part of Evanwood or are you down the back? I'm in the back, in 115. Okay, okay, okay.

And do you have a hot water cylinder in the house? No, I don't. I don't think so. I have one in the attic, but I think it's cold water.

Okay, yeah. I think yours is... Do you just see that coming in now? And this is the type of radiator I have too. I'm sending to you some pics.

They're just double-panel radiators. Yeah, I would be thinking you're going to be upgrading them. Let's see now.

Yeah, that's one of them. Okay, and where that gas boiler is, is that where you would visit your indoor unit being put? It's in the utility room. Yeah, okay.

Okay, so look, I have a lot of experience with fitting Daikin heat pumps and Hisense heat pumps. Would you believe, just after getting off the phone, I'm speaking to a neighbour of mine who wants to change their heat pump. And they are, I think, going to go for the Hisense heat pump over the Daikin heat pump for a couple of reasons.

One being that the Hisense heat pump is a bit cheaper and the warranty on the Hisense is seven years, whereas the warranty on the Daikin is only three years. Okay, so that for me is a huge thing. I can't understand if Daikin are world leaders, why can they not stand over their product for more than three years? Yeah, that's true.

Because not so long ago I was fitting Daikin heat pumps and they had eight and maybe even nine or ten years warranty. And every year they've retracted and retracted and retracted. So that to me, it sinks their ship a small bit.

It's a warning, indeed. Well, maybe not a warning, but I just think it doesn't give the customer that much of a cushion if something is wrong. Because even the worst washing machines will stay going for three years and then they die the following year.

So that would be my take on it. But look, I think the first thing we need to do anyway is get you to send me off, draw out the plan of your house with sizes of rooms, heights of rooms. Have you double glazing or triple glazing? I believe it's double.

Double glazing, okay. I'll send you the report. Do that, yeah.

We can definitely come up with a recommendation for you and we can come up with a system for you. Yeah, I suppose that's it. Your heat emitter is downstairs, that's radiators as well.

You don't have underfloor heating? No, no I don't. Okay, that's fine. Yeah, so look, I suppose that's where we're at.

So as soon as you get that to me, I can send that off to Uniterm and we can start the ball rolling, alright? Alright, I would like to hear obviously a quote or an estimate or more or less how much would be gross and net after the grants. But yeah, I'll send you all the documentation that you require, okay? Yeah, send it on to me and I'll have to wait then to see what Uniterm comes back to me with. We can adjust your system and we can get down to the nitty gritty then after that.

Okay, perfect. Alright? Alright, thank you so much and thanks for taking this call so late. No worries, no worries. 

Last call now I'm going to bed, alright? Of course. That's okay. Enjoy.

Bye. Take care. Bye bye.

(Transcribed by TurboScribe. Go Unlimited to remove this message.)